# Chem Notes 08/30

Physical Separations
--------------------

Ways of physical separation
- Non-soluble/soluble.
- Use filter to separate different size solids.
- Boil off solvent and dry.
- Distillation, separates liquids based off their boiling points.
- Sublimation: Separates solids from liquid by going solid -> gas

Empirical/Molecular Formulas
----------------------------

- Empiricial Formula: Smallest whole-number ratio at which molecules combine
    - Hydrogen Peroxide: HO
- Molecular Formula: Actual number of atoms for each molecule in a compound. How a compound is naturally found.
    - Hydrogen Peroxide: H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>
- Formula Unit (of iconic compounds): Only has an empirical formula, ignore molecular formula for ionic compounds.
    - Molecular Compound: Nonmetal+Nonmetal
    - Ionic Compound: Metal+Nonmetal

> Never compare elements in grams, convert to moles first!
>  Mass divided by molecular weight, which gives moles.

> Convert all atoms to moles, and then divide moles by lowest mole value.

Molecular Formula
-----------------

Find empirical formula, divide molar mass by molecular mass to find the ratio, multiply amounts of each atom quantity by the ratio of molar to molecular mass.

> peroxide is when Oxygen acts as O<sup>1+</sup>

Combustion Analysis
-------------------

- Take a compound, and add lots of oxygen to burn it.

> Organic compounds usually contain C, H, and O

- Use H<sub>2</sub>O, CO<sub>2</sub> absorbers to find Hydrogen and Carbon amounts respectively.
- Oxygen is `(amount found) - (amount started with)`

> For percent composition, if not given a weight, assume 100g == 100%