# Class Notes 9/15

## Bohr Model

- Stationary States
- Each state associated with a fixed circular orbit of the electron around the nucleus

## Atom Notes

- Atom does not radiate energy in stationary states.
- Atom changes to another stationary state only by absorbing or emitting a photon
- The energy of the photon equals the difference between the energies of the two energy states.
- When the electron (for hydrogen) is in any orbit higher than n = 1, the atom is in an excited states.
  - `n` can only be a whole number
- Diffraction shows that electrons are waves.

### Atom Scientists

- Blackbody Radiation (Planck): Energy is quantized
- Photoelectric Effect (Einstein): Light behaves like a particle
- Atomic line spectra (Bohr): Energy of atoms is quantized.

## Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle

- States that it is not possible to know both the position and momentum of a moving particle at the same time

- \(\Delta x * m \Delta u \geq \frac{h}{4 \pi}\), x = position, u = speed
- The more accurately we know the speed, the less accurately we know the position, and vice versa.

## Electron Rules

- Hund's Rule: You can never have more than 2 electrons in one orbital.

- Two electrons in the same orbital have to be spinning in opposite directions.

> HOMO: Highest occupied molecular orbital.
>
> LUMO: Lowest unoccupied molecular orbital.

## Quantom-Mechanical Model

- Schrodinger's Equation allows us to solve for position __or__ momentum.

## Examples

- H: 1s<sup>1</sup>
- He: 1s<sup>2</sup>
- Li: 1s<sup>2</sup> 2s<sup>1</sup>
- Be: 1s<sup>2</sup> 2s<sup>2</sup>
- B: 1s<sup>2</sup> 2s<sup>2</sup> 2p<sup>1</sup>
- C: 1s<sup>2</sup> 2s<sup>2</sup> 2p<sup>2</sup>
- ...
- Ar: 1s<sup>2</sup> 2s<sup>2</sup> 2p<sup>6</sup> 3s<sup>2</sup> 3p<sup>6</sup>
- K: [Ar] 4s<sup>1</sup>
  - Can use shortcuts of noble gases to simplify the string.
- V: [Ar] 4s<sup>2</sup> 3d<sup>3</sup>
- Zn: [Ar] 4s<sup>2</sup> 3d<sup>10</sup>
- Ce: [Xe] 6s<sup>2</sup> 5d<sup>1</sup> 4f<sup>1</sup>

> After #21 (Sc), orbital is n - 1 (start at 3d).
>
> F-orbital is n - 2 (start at 4f instead of 6f)
